The first step to build any facial recognition application is to have the images we're going to work
with and to be able to load them and then process them.
In this case, I'm going to work with three pictures that you can find in the resources of this lesson
and that I have here.
Picture A is a picture of me.
Picture B is another picture of me, but in a completely different position with another angle and another
light.
And this is intentional so that I can make a comparison and see if the system recognizes that I am the
same person.
And a third photo picture C that belongs to Brad Pitt.
With who?
I'm not very similar, let's face it.
So I'm going to use this picture to see if the system is able to recognize when it's not the same person.
So I hope I'm different enough from Brad Pitt so that the system doesn't get confused.
We're going to close the pictures and we're going to go back to our code and we're going to make an
explanation saying that here we're going to load images here.
We're going to set the variable that we call controlled picture to have a picture that's going to be
the one that's the base picture.
The system is going to know who this picture belongs to and then compare it with another one.
The variable is going to be equal to face recognition.
That would be f r since that's why we put this nickname and we're going to call the method load image
file and in brackets it asks us to put the name of the file that we're going to load and the location
as I have it in the same folder.
I don't need to put any path, just the name, which is picture a jpg.
If you want to use the same pictures as me, you can then download them from the resources in this lesson
and you should use the same file name.
And if you want to try with your own photos or photos of family members and have some fun, remember
to put the name that corresponds to the photo here.
Then we're going to load another picture which is going to be picture B, which I'm going to use as
a test picture, and it's going to be equal to f r dot load image file and it's going to contain picture
b.
JPG Now I need to make a change on both images, which is to establish how they will do color processing.
Face recognition only understands images that have an AGB format, which is a way of structuring the
color of the image.
Therefore, we're going to make sure that our pictures are in the IGB format.
For that we're going to call control picture, but now we're going to say that it is equal to cv2,
which we have already imported with the method CVT color, which is the one that allows us to transform
its color structure.
So it asks us for two parameters first source, which would be the picture to modify, which is going
to be control picture.
And then we have to set the color code, which in this case is going to be CV two dot color underscore
b, gr2, r, g b these letters may seem a little confusing, but they basically say that we switch
from the BGR system to the GB system and that's what we're doing.
We're going to copy the same thing to apply it to a test picture and we're going to change test picture
here and here.
We have already transformed the two pictures, so let's clear it up by putting transform images into
our g b.
Now we have the images as we need them.
So here, let's do something to show images.
While this is not necessary for the code.
Let's learn how to use CV to to display our images once we run the code.
It is with CV two with the method.
I am show for image show.
And now it asks for two parameters.
One is the name we're going to give to the image to be displayed, i.e. to be shown as the title of
the image.
So let's say it's going to show the title My Control Picture, and then it needs to know which picture
is the one we're going to show.
Of course it is control picture.
So we do the same with CV two for I am show to show the second picture, which we're going to title
my test picture and which is going to show logically the test image picture.
So as these images would disappear immediately after being shown, because the code ends right there
and the execution of the program is finished and everything that is open will be closed.
So we're going to leave a line of code to keep the program working.
And we're going to do this with a tool of CV two called Weight Key, which is a method that leaves the
program waiting until a key is pressed.
We put a zero as parameter and we can execute it.
So run, run.
And we choose facial recognition moment, which is the name of my file.
It takes a few seconds.
And here the two images I asked for are opened control picture and test picture.
You can see the names in the headers.
So this is step one.
Load the pictures and we're going to do step two in the next lesson.